error budgets: add SLOs and SLIs (#101)
packit/research: error-budgets/SLOs-SLIs.md

# Definitions of SLOs and SLIs for packit

If you are not familiar with SLOs and SLIs, please check [README.md](./README.md) first.

## How do others do it?

The CKI team has a pretty comprehensive set of
[SLOs](https://cki-project.org/docs/hacking/rfcs/cki-004-slo/#created-slos-based-on-the-feedback).
Instead of taking the same route, let's start small and slowly add more and
more objectives and indicators over time.

Testing Farm team has [Service level
expectations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iHK3v_tCK4w-F82ZvUEO3xHcNv78tkR31w3oF-zpi1Q/edit#heading=h.26gd46u8e15q)
and a pretty slick
[dashboard](http://grafana-latest-osci-infra.cloud.privileged.psi.redhat.com/d/VXwH27XMk/rhel-infrastructure-and-service-health?orgId=1).

> Cockpit also uses this framework and the team has [a nice dashboard as well](http://grafana-latest-osci-infra.cloud.privileged.psi.redhat.com/d/VgtdtiwGk/rhel-infrastructure-and-service-health?orgId=1).

Reviewer: "Not found"

Author: you're right, asked the team about this

> ## Packit SLOs

Reviewer: Can we have a link to the [Users expectations](https://github.com/packit/research/blob/main/error-budgets/users-expectations.md) somewhere here?

> successful run = job finished and everything is awesome
> failure = the job finished and the result is failure: the user needs to fix it
> error = infrastructure problems prevented the job to complete

Reviewer: They render on one line
```suggestion
- successful run = job finished and everything is awesome
- failure = the job finished and the result is a failure: the user needs to fix it
- error = infrastructure problems prevented the job to complete
```

## How do others do it?

The CKI team has a pretty comprehensive set of
[SLOs](https://cki-project.org/docs/hacking/rfcs/cki-004-slo/#created-slos-based-on-the-feedback).
Instead of taking the same route, let's start small and slowly add more and
more objectives and indicators over time.

Testing Farm team has [Service level
expectations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iHK3v_tCK4w-F82ZvUEO3xHcNv78tkR31w3oF-zpi1Q/edit#heading=h.26gd46u8e15q)
and a pretty slick
[dashboard](http://grafana-latest-osci-infra.cloud.privileged.psi.redhat.com/d/VXwH27XMk/rhel-infrastructure-and-service-health?orgId=1).

Cockpit also uses this framework and the team has [a nice dashboard as well](http://grafana-latest-osci-infra.cloud.privileged.psi.redhat.com/d/VgtdtiwGk/rhel-infrastructure-and-service-health?orgId=1).

## Packit SLOs

SLOs are based on [discussions with our stakeholders](users-expectations.md).

Let's define job statuses first to get a clear understanding of these objectives:

- successful run: a job finished and everything is awesome
- failure: the job finished and wasn't successful: the PR needs to be fixed
- error: infrastructure problems prevented the job to complete

> ### 99% of builds finish with success/failure by 24 hours

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 99% of builds finish with success or failure within 24 hours
```

... but this seem to somewhat contradict the practice to babysit copr build for about [8 hours](https://github.com/packit/packit-service/blob/ff58a490b6e78a57e6f5655b063ef3ccf4c6addf/packit_service/worker/tasks.py#L73). Maybe 8 hours is too little, but 24 hours seems too long, if I think about this in the context of CI. Worst case scenario, I would expect 12 hours. Anything above this seems to render any result irrelevant. But this is all speculation, probably would make sense to ask some prominent users, what do they expect. What is the maximum time for a build to finish, which is still useful for them and doesn't slow down their development too much.

Author: The problem here is that every project is different and builds take different times for ogr, cockpit, anaconda, kernel, systemd, atlas, gcc... One absolute number can't fit all. 

The indicator I'd like to see here would measure [moving average (MA)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moving_average) and the object would require have consistent. Not sure how hard would it be to [measure MA](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27489056/is-there-a-way-to-have-a-moving-average-in-grafana) with grafana.

The most core functionality is to run COPR builds for PRs. We want to be sure
those builds either pass or fail and no error interrupts the build process.

The problem is that some builds take minutes and some hours so it's hard to
design this objective to make it more proactive - that we'd know sooner that

> something is wrong.

Reviewer 2: I don't think there is anything wrong with that. I don't expect this objective to be used for short term monitoring.

> ### 95% of test runs finish with success/failure by 24 hours

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 95% of test runs finish with success or failure within 24 hours
```

The same concerns I had regarding the duration above.

Similar as builds but since Testing Farm is outside of our control, let's lower
the percentage.

### Changes to GitHub PRs receive a status update within 15 seconds in 99% of cases

It can be frustrating (for us and our users) when we push changes to our PRs
while no statuses are being set. Let's make a deadline for packit to set these.

## Packit SLIs

If we want to track our SLOs, we need to start measuring different aspects of our workflow.

- Number of builds that finished with an error

- Number of unfinished builds that are in progress for more than 24 hours

- Number of test runs that finished with an error

- Number of PRs handled by packit with no commit status from packit in >15s

> - Time it takes packit to set the initial status

Reviewer 2: These indicators seem to me to be derivatives.

Shouldn't we have some more basic ones which can be combined to derive and measure the objectives? Like: number of builds started, number of builds finished with successful/failure/error, build duration, etc...
